Hello everyone! Welcome to the course! The course is exclusively dedicated
to C ++ development under the Unreal Engine. We will only use Blueprints for setting
class parameters and for some subsystems where their use is justified:
animation state machine, behavior tree and user interface design.
In this case, however, all the internal logic will be in C ++.
The course is divided into sections, in each of which we will focus on one of the Unreal Engine subsystems or deal with the
specific functionality of the game, thus gradually and consistently developing it.
This course assumes that you know at least one object-oriented programming language (ideally C ++).
That is, we will not consider the basic syntax of what operators, classes, inheritance,
virtual functions are. This is the basics of programming and the course is not devoted to this.
At the very beginning there will be a special section in which we will analyze the main types,
macros, the concepts of what delegates are, the architecture of Unreal classes, the spawn of actors, how the project is built.
Let's talk about the garbage collector and so on. For those who already have experience with C ++ in the
Unreal Engine, you can skip this section and go straight to the main project of the course.
Let's take a quick look at what we'll be learning.
Let's start by creating a character, taking a look at the input system in the Unreal Engine. Let's work on animations of movement, running, jumping.
Let's look at various animation assets, learn what an animation graph is and how to customize it.
Next, we will develop a character's health component, learn how to inflict damage on our hero,
create an automatic health recovery, consider how to inflict damage on a character when falling from a height.
Let's add a death animation to the character and create an observer mode.
Let's create a weapon component, set up aiming, weapon change, and reload animations. Let's look at how collisions work,
line trace, create two classes of weapons: a grenade launcher and a rifle, set up
damage to the character and also deal with the data structure for storing cartridges and magazines.
Next, we work with the user interface. Let's create different types of scopes.
We will display information about the weapon in the interface, also create a life widget and an additional widget
when we are in the spectator state.
In the next section, we will create pickups: health and ammo. Let's see how and under what conditions we will select them.
Next, we are dealing with special effects. Niagara system. Let's create the effect of bullet marks, trace
effects, flash effects from the muzzle of a weapon. Consider physical materials. The special effects will
differ depending on the surface we get into. Let's replace the death animation with the physical
relaxation of the model. For the grenade launcher, we will also have our own effects: the explosion effect and the trace effect of the projectile.
Let's add effects when damaging the character: red screen and camera shake.
When the character dies, we'll add black and white post-processing to the spectator camera.
Next, we will study artificial intelligence in the Unreal Engine: behavior trees, create services that
will find the enemy automatically, shoot, change weapons. Let's consider what decorators and tasks are.
Also consider a special subsystem EQS, which allows you to analyze the space
around the character. At the end of the section, we will get a completely playable version. Plus, let's see
how to display specific debug information related to artificial intelligence.
Next, let's set the rules for our game. Consider the GameMode class. Let's divide all the players into two teams.
Let's give each team their own unique color. Let's learn how to make respawns. Count statistics,
number of murders, number of deaths. Let's limit the playing time, create several rounds.
In the next topic, we will deal with advanced user interface programming.
Let's pause by pressing the "P" key. Let's make the main menu. Let's consider how to programmatically
close the game. Let's make a choice of levels. Let's create a static preloader and also, at the very end of the game,
create a statistics widget for all players.
Next, let's start programming the sound. Let's take a look at various sound assets and settings.
At the very end of the course, we will see how you can effectively design game levels
and also consider a couple of additional effects: optical zoom and headshot.